RHCLOUD 40956 - Clean up python library (#2)
project-kessel/kessel-sdk-py: README.md

# Kessel SDK for Python

A Python SDK for connecting to Kessel services using gRPC.

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Quick Start](#quick-start)
- [Client Builder](#client-builder)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
  - [Target Server](#target-server)
  - [Credentials](#credentials)
  - [Keep-Alive Settings](#keep-alive-settings)
- [Authentication](#authentication)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [API Reference](#api-reference)
- [Error Handling](#error-handling)
- [Development](#development)

## Installation

```bash
pip install kessel-sdk
```

## Quick Start

```python
import grpc

from kessel.inventory.v1beta2 import (
    ClientBuilder, 
    rbac, 

>     check_request_pb2,

Reviewer: That import would be nice, however that [project](https://github.com/nipunn1313/mypy-protobuf/) seems to be targeting python 2.7 and hasn't been updated in a while.

>     check_request_pb2,

Reviewer: There is also this other: https://github.com/danielgtaylor/python-betterproto

    resource_reference_pb2, 
    reporter_reference_pb2
)

# Build a stub pointing at a local instance
stub = (
    ClientBuilder

>     .with_defaults_localhost(9000)

Reviewer: I recall the ClientBuilder had multiple `with_defaults_*` calls. Should we just set the defaults with a single call and use other methods to set stuff like insecure, targets, etc.

A pattern I recall from C++/Java is (and unsure if is less idiomatic in python)

```
ClientBuilder
.builder()  # Creates the builder and sets the defaults
.target("localhost:9000") # Or even localhost is set as default and instead we use .port(9000) ?
```

Author: Yeah this is something that can be done in python, and makes the python sdk more consistent with the others. I plan to update this in a future release PR 😃

>     .build_inventory_stub()

Reviewer: We could probably reduce complexity by just doing `build` - In the contexf of the `ClientBuilder` it makes sense that builds gives us a full featured client where we can make calls. 

I recall it had other methods to build the channel. I see the channel as something intermediary that might be less used as we want to reuse the stub as well anyway.

    resource_type="group",
    reporter=reporter_reference_pb2.ReporterReference(type="rbac"),
)

check_request = check_request_pb2.CheckRequest(
   subject=subject,
   relation="member",
   object=resource_ref,
)

try:
    check_response = stub.Check(check_request)
    print("Check response received successfully")
    print(check_response)
except grpc.RpcError as e:
    print("gRPC error occurred during Check:")
    print(f"Code: {e.code()}")
    print(f"Details: {e.details()}")
```

## Client Builder

The Kessel SDK uses a builder pattern to create gRPC channels and service stubs. You should reuse the same channel and stub instances for multiple API calls, as creating
a channel is expensive. 
`BaseClientBuilder` provides:

* **Channel and Stub caching** – reuse connections automatically
* **Reasonable defaults** – keep-alive tuned for production & development
* **AsyncIO support** – Switch to `grpc.aio` for asynchronous tasks by calling `with_asyncio()` on the ClientBuilder

## Configuration

### Target Server

The only required value is the target address (host:port):

```python
ClientBuilder.with_defaults_insecure("localhost:9000")
ClientBuilder.with_defaults_localhost(9000)

> ClientBuilder.with_defaults(target="kessel.example.com:443", call_creds=...)

Reviewer: We could probably get rid of the multiple `with_defaults_*` by having a single one or even the `builder` static method and using other methods to configure other aspects as mentioned above.

```

### Credentials

* **Insecure (Development)** – generated by `.with_defaults_insecure()` or explicit insecure channel

> * **Secure (Production)** – pass `grpc.ssl_channel_credentials()` or your own certificate bundle:

Reviewer: In the node sdk I proposed a config type to pass down the certificates as strings - we might get these as such due to clowder - we could use something similar here.

```python
from pathlib import Path, PurePath

root_certs = Path("root.pem").read_bytes()
call_creds = grpc.access_token_call_credentials("TOKEN")

builder = (
    ClientBuilder()
    .with_defaults(
        target="kessel.example.com:443",
        call_credentials=call_creds,
        channel_credentials=grpc.ssl_channel_credentials(root_certs),
    )
)
```

### Keep-Alive Settings

Keep-alive can be customised. Otherwise defaults are applied (time = 10 s, timeout = 5 s, max-pings = 12, permit-without-calls = True).

```python
builder.with_keep_alive(time_ms=30000, timeout_ms=10000, max_pings=5, permit_without_calls=False)
```

## Authentication

> Version `1.1.0` will support OAuth 2.0 Client Credentials for authentication.

Reviewer: nitpick, stuff happens :sweat_smile: 

```suggestion
OAuth 2.0 Client Credentials support is on our development roadmap and is planned for a future update.
```
